Have you ever taken apart a computer or a remote control? Have you wondered what's inside your phone or toaster? You can learn a lot by taking stuff apart and putting it back together again! In fact, taking tech apart is an important part of an IT Support Specialist's job.

If you have ever taken apart tech before, share your experiences with your fellow classmates! What did you take apart and why? What did you learn when you did so? Did anything surprise you? Were you able to put it together and get it working again?

If you never have taken apart a piece of tech, would you consider doing it now? Why or why not? Share your thoughts with the group! 

### My response

It's always revealing to take a device apart to see what's inside. From an empirical point of view, it's a very inductive method. It allows you to see and touch the materials that make it up and how they are organised, and it illuminates the black box of your computer mechanism.

From personal experience, I have done this by opening my computer desktop and wiping it clean. And when the moment comes to put it all back together again, you will never look at it the same way again.

I think this is an important thing to do with many other mechanisms and devices. Because we live in a very passive mode where we receive all made and processed.

And I think that this destroys our capacity for criticism and even takes away our autonomy and ingenuity. Contrary to what we may think when it comes to technology, innovation is lost when we are only interested in the two instances of the programme, which are the input and the output, but not the processing.
